Today's episode is brought to you by GoDaddy. Some of you listening right now have been thinking about starting your own business. Deep down, you've got a feeling that you could turn your passion into a profit if only you had the resources and the confidence to get started. Thanks to our sponsor. GoDaddy, you do? With GoDaddy, you can build a beautiful website or store for free, even if you have no clue how tech stuff works. The best part GoDaddy provides personalized guidance at every step, ensuring you have the support you need to succeed in starting and growing your small business. Ready to make your dreams a reality? Head over to GoDaddy.com slash start that's GoDaddy.com slash start and take a quantum leap forward and the first step on your small business journey? See terms on site. The one thing we can never get more of is time. Or can we? This is Watson X Orchestrate, AI designed to multiply productivity by automating tasks. When you Watson X your business, you can build digital skills to help human resources spend less time generating, offer letters, writing, job RECs, and managing schedules, and spend more time on humans. Let's create more time for your business with Watson X Orchestrate. Learn More@ibm.com Orchestrate IBM let's create sick of paying $100 for groceries and getting nothing but eggs, orange juice, and a paper bag? Then download the drop app. Drop lets you earn points with your everyday shopping and redeem them for gift cards. Want a free dinner with those groceries? Drop it. How about daily lates? Drop it. So download Drop today and get $5 just for signing up. Use invite code. Get drop. Seven seven seven. Did you know one in three kids in the US. Lacks a mentor? Over 30,000 hopeful kids are on the Big Brothers Big Sisters waiting list. Mentoring may sound like a lot, but it takes little to be big. Think just 30 minutes for a coffee or a quick 20 minutes gaming session, or the time it takes to have a couple of slices of pizza. These small moments are mentoring magic. Donate to Big Brothers, big Sisters of America@bebignow.org. Help make sure every kid has what they need to thrive. Let's transform lives together. Give a little change a lot. Welcome to Stuff to blow your Mind, a production of iHeartRadio. Hey, welcome to stuff to blow your mind. My name is Robert Lamb, and I have an interview for you this week that I conducted with none other than Roman Mars, the podcast host and author host of the 99% Invisible Podcast and co author of the book the 99% Invisible City. So it was a real treat to sit down virtually with Roman Mars here and discuss 99% Invisible, both the podcast and the book the 99% Invisible City, discussing podcasting in general, design in general. It's a fun chat, and I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Hi, Roman. Welcome to the show. Oh, thank you so much for having me. I appreciate it. I want to start by stating the obvious that a lot of our listeners stuff to blow your mind don't really need an introduction or even a reintroduction to you and your show. But for anyone out there who isn't aware what is 99% Invisible and what does the title mean? 99% Invisible is about all the thought that goes into things most people don't think about. The idea is that even these big things like buildings, they may be massive, but the story behind them is still 99% invisible. And that's where it comes from. When I first started, it sort of started as a show about architecture and design. And it still is. I think design is still its mandate, but our vision of what is designed is quite broad. It's sort of any human made thing is designed. And so when I first started, I gathered this collection of different types of designers, a product designer, an architect, a landscape designer, and asked them, what is the unifying theme to what you do? And I was going to try to name the show at what that was, but I didn't want to use the word design for some reason. I just wanted to avoid it and make something more poetic and evocative. And they came to a conclusion that if they're doing their jobs right, their job is 99% invisible. And so that's what the show became. I think I heard the show for the first time on Radio Lab and I had to look it up. This would have been back in 2011. Yeah, they did us a real service by introducing us to a lot of people. I mean, Jad and the folks who were working on Radiolab at the time, we kind of came up together in the public radio trenches. And so that was just about the time when we started running the shows. And so I think there was a little bit of backslapping know, helping out a brother in arms in that scenario, but they did us a real good service of introducing us to their audience. Radio Lab always impressed me with its exceptional audio production, its sound design, a show that had a particular vision for, I think, how sound design could be used to help explain a topic. And I tend to think of 99% Invisible as existing on the same shelf in the similar category of podcast or radio show. So I was wondering, what is your philosophy on 99% Invisible sound design? Well, it varies. I like things to be radiophonic, which to me means if you were to read a transcript of the show, you wouldn't fully get what the show is trying to convey. There has to be the audio element, the sound of someone's voice, the sound of someone's passion, and then the music and a little bit of the ambient and field tape tell a different story than just the words being said. We just do it to serve the story that you can definitely overdo it. You can sort of call a lot of attention to sound design. I think we sort of pitch it the way I personally like it. I like a good amount of music. I like switching voices. I talk, another person talks, another person talks. It keeps the ear interested. I think there's ways that when you're conveying information, varying that so that the ear doesn't get bored and then your mind drifts off is really important. But we also kind of play it by ear. Like there isn't like a huge, I don't know, just like a standard operating procedure or a certain mandate when it comes to sound design. We are really talented composer in Swan Real and engineer in Martin Gonzalez. And they just make it beautiful and it just feels good to me. It was always the show I always wanted in terms of the way it sounds and have changes or trends in the podcasting industry affected the way you approach things at all? I don't know about the changes in podcasting. I like the show the way it is because I think it serves the way the show is. That is not to say that I don't love things that aren't produced to our extent. Like, my favorite podcasts are two people talking and there's something really lovely about that. And so to me, there's just always like there are these different trends or just like buckets of podcasts that do different things and do them well. And I think they all can coexist kind of nicely. I mean, the main thing that happened with my show is that it was really designed for radio. Like, I made it for public radio. The original episodes are four minutes long because they fit into a slot that would go into Morning Edition. And then I was just like, well, I guess I'll put this as a podcast because whatever, might as well. And so we did. And I say we, there was no we. It was just me at this point. For many, many years it was just me. And then when it started to find a life as a podcast, it was like, well, let's just keep in that. Let's make that a little bit longer because I don't have to make it four minutes when it becomes a podcast. And then it just grows and grows and grows and eventually a switch flipped where the primary audience was the podcast audience, which didn't have to adhere to sometime a radio clock. And I was cutting a version for the radio and then it sort of was off to the races and now every story is what it is. And so, in a way, podcasting liberated me from what is the constraint of every type of broadcast journalist, which is like, you're basically either cutting to fit a time or filling to make a time is like a huge part of your job as a producer. And I don't really do that anymore based on some sort of artificial constraint. I still do that based off of my taste. Like, I still like things to be tight and be purposeful in their length. So in that sense, podcasting really changed and made it so. Now the average show is like 35, 40 minutes long. It's like ten times longer. It's really something. But this show has kind of had its own trajectory that I don't know if it really follows the vicitudes of podcasting in general, but I'm sure I'm influenced by it some way. Anytime I listen to the show or engage with 99% invisible content, I feel like I leave it with my eyes just a little more open to the design around me. Do you ever feel like or hope that you're initiating listeners into sort of a different understanding of the world? Oh, for sure. I mean, that's the ultimate goal. And I know that it's effective because it's been effective with me. I studied lots of things to get to where I am. I've been a journalist now for 20 years, but before that, I was working on a PhD in genetics. I studied a lot of things. I didn't have a real specific knowledge of design or architecture. I was just a person who would, like, go on the architecture tour if I was in a city. I've always approached it as a journalist and as a fan. And I've noticed that the show has changed me over the years of making it. Like, as I've told these stories about all the thought that goes into things that most people pass by without noticing, I've felt myself becoming more sort of keenly aware of the world and how it functions, and actually kind of keenly aware of how well we're taken care of in the world in a certain way. Like, it's turned me into a more optimistic person to do this show because a lot of people put a lot of care into things so you don't die pretty consistently or so that you can operate smoothly in this world. And we bump against the things that are poorly designed, and we notice those. We don't notice the 99% invisible things that are so well designed that they pass our notice. And so it has changed the way I view the world making the show. And what I've heard from people has changed the way that they look at the world. And that's super satisfying because I think it really does improve your outlook of the world to think about the design of things. And you've been doing the show long enough that you have listeners out there who have grown up with the show, right? Yeah, we have someone who works on the show now, jacob Maltonada Medina and her stepfather had her listen to the show as a like, I think it was like junior high or high school. Yeah, it's absurd. A lot of people have grown up with it and it's pretty satisfying to have them. But when they show up and they're in their 20s, I'm blown away by that. Now. I guess on the other end of the spectrum, you still have people coming to the podcast who are new to it and you've covered so many design topics over the years. I wonder what your recommendation is for people who are new to it. Like I know on your website, at 99 percentinvisible.org you have a nice Explore section that allows you to sort of check out areas by topic. But in general, do you tend to steer people towards the beginning, towards the most recent, or a particular foundational episode, never the beginning. I feel like when people tell me that they've gone back and listened to all of them, I'm like, oh, maybe I should take those down because it's worth it. But I think that I mostly say to listen to the most recent one. I mean, the thing about an ongoing series is that no one episode can sort of encapsulate what you do. What do with an ongoing series is you're telling this story over time and it's like this weird regression plot where it's like, here's an episode kind of like this, and here's an episode kind of like this and then you draw a line through that regression plot and that is the thesis of your show. And so no one point really exemplifies that. Especially when as makers you're like, well, that's like about an 80% of what I wanted it to be or whatever. And so mostly I tell people to listen to the latest one. And we have a few classics like there's this one called Structural Integrity that won a lot of awards that I think is a good episode about a building almost falling down and that's always exciting. And what I don't want people to do is in the beginning I think it's fine to go search through things that you know you're interested in and go listen to them. But almost the point of the show is that we're daring you with how boring the subject is. And what we're trying to do is the production is sort of creating this delta between how boring an idea is and how we're going to present it to make it so that you really, really, truly care about it. And so don't read the description and go, Nah, that's not for me. If you read description and go, that's not for me, try just one of those and see if I can convince you that this is interesting and applies to you in some way. That's the main thing I want from people when they try the show out. Today's episode is brought to you by GoDaddy. Have you been trying to grow a small business all on your own? It used to seem like an overwhelming mystery how small business owners can wear multiple hats and manage every aspect of their operations. But thanks to GoDaddy, it's now clear how entrepreneurs can do it all easily while also saving both time and money. GoDaddy's Commerce Solution offers a central dashboard that simplifies managing orders, sales payments, and inventory across online and in person channels. With GoDaddy, you can sell in all channels on your website or online store as well as in person with one solution save time with a central single dashboard to manage your orders and payments across sales channels. Plus, GoDaddy has point of sale options to suit your needs. Sell on the go at farmers markets or pop up events with a card reader and mobile app, or use a modern smart terminal for instore payments. GoDaddy Payments lets you keep more of what you make with 20% lower transaction fees compared to other providers. Plus, you'll get your money fast with payouts as soon as the next business day. So if you want to learn more about how GoDaddy takes the mystery out of growing your business, visit GoDaddy.com. Grow today and get started. See terms on site. Today's episode is brought to you by Big Brothers, big Sisters of America. Did you know one in three kids in the US. Lack a mentor? Over 30,000 hopeful kids are on the Big Brothers Big Sisters waiting list. Mentoring may sound like a lot, but it takes little to be big. Think just 30 minutes for a coffee, or a quick 20 minutes gaming session, or the time it takes to have a couple of slices of pizza. These small moments are mentoring magic, and we need more of the little things. We need more mentors who remember the little moments and experiences that affected their lives and now welcome the opportunity to do the same for a young person. By exposing kids to positive, caring relationships beyond the adults in their families and neighborhoods, mentoring expands a young person's sights on what they can pursue and achieve. The connection and confidence that inspires a kid can have a ripple effect. And when that happens, we all win. The truth is, mentorship changes lives. Donate to Big Brothers, big Sisters of America@bebignow.org. Help make sure every kid has what they need to thrive. Let's transform lives together. Give a little change a lot. Today's episode is brought to you by Dell. What would you do if you had the freedom to be anyone or go anywhere without limitations? Start your journey and experience for yourself the feeling of total freedom when you game with Alienware. Alienware is your portal to new worlds where limits don't exist and the only rules are the ones you decide to make. Next gen gaming is built with Intel Core I Nine Processors. Defy boundaries and start gaming now@alienware.com. Hey, can I let you in on a little secret? I'm obsessed with the Drop app. Drop makes it so easy to score free gift cards just for doing my everyday shopping at places like Ulta sam's Club and Lyft. So if you're like me and love a good shopping spree, download Drop today and join the secret club of Savvy Shoppers and use my code get drop nine nine nine to get $5. Thanks. Now, I'm a little late to the party here, but I recently picked up a copy of the book the 99% Invisible City that you co authored with Kurt Colstead. And it's a thoroughly enjoyable and insightful read highlighting the details of the modern world and going in matching with what you just said. There were certainly sections of it that I knew that I was going to be into anything dealing with, say, like underground infrastructure and the whole section on infrastructure disguised as buildings and so forth. But yeah, there's so much in it where suddenly there'll be a section of the book that is dealing with something that I completely take for granted, sometimes every day. And it's ultimately a fascinating and illuminating topic, like traffic circles, for example. I mean, that's the goal, is that we can lure you in with some things that you might be interested in and then we sort of lull you into trying to pay attention to other things. And the book was really interesting to make because I've been making audio for so long and I feel like I was approached about making a book like episode five of the podcast, there was this sort of sense that books are the inevitable, I don't know, prize or something. They didn't understand that I really wanted to make a podcast, but it took us for a long time to do it. One of the reasons was the partnership and making it with Kurt Colstead. It was required that he work on it and be excited about it. And then the other was I'm really into design in a real sense. And to me it's like the show is designed to be a podcast and trying to creating some kind of deprecated transcription version of it had no interest to me. But there was a certain point where the volume of the things that we covered audio is not really useful for scrubbing through and it's experiential, but it's not like, oh, I remember this thing about curb cuts. What's the name of that episode and where do I find it and what is it and do I have 20 minutes to listen to it and stuff? And there was just a point where all the stuff that we had covered and the sort of territory we've staked out of our view of the world wasn't being served by linear audio anymore. And a book was kind of like felt like it was natural and necessary and good. That's what the book became. And it has a lot of stuff that's from the show in it, but also a lot of new stuff that we can't cover because as much as I enjoy the perversity of covering a lot of visual stuff in an audio medium to highlight the storyness of it versus the aesthetics of things. There's some things that are just impossible to cover. And things like Roundabouts, where you try to describe The Magic Roundabout, which is like circles and circles and circles, and it's like you can kind of get it, but I don't know if you can really visualize it until you get some pictures of it. Yeah, that was definitely a part in the book where I was very thankful for the illustration. And there are plenty of other places where they're talking about something and you can look at the illustration be like, oh, yeah, that one. That's what they're talking about. I've seen that thing. That particular star shape, or whatever the case may be. Exactly. It does require a little bit of help. Yeah. So it's interesting that it sounded like it was kind of I don't want to say a daunting task, but like a task, it was hugely daunting. Horrible. Yeah, it's really hard. There's the saying that I heard as we were making the book that was a takeoff of the teach a man to fish kind of thing. Teach a man to fish and then he'll oh, yeah. Give a man a fish, he eats for a day. Teach a man a fish, he'll eat for a lifetime. It's give a person a book, they'll read for a week. Teach a person to write a book, they'll never enjoy anything for the rest of their life. So it's really hard. But, I mean, Curvily brought it all together in terms of the writing and the kind of organizing and project managing. He really threw himself into it in a way that it never would have happened. Because one of the problems with a really long deadline that a book gives you, like a year long deadline, it has its own problems, but when you have a weekly deadline of a show at the same time, it's always possible to occupy yourself with the immediate deadline and put off the big deadline anyway. It was really hard. Well, like I say, the finished product is excellent, and you've covered this already. But I guess when one initially hears about a podcast becoming a book, it's easy to think, well, okay, like you say, it's just something that had to happen. This is like the inevitable sort of cash in or the inevitable even evolution of the thing. But, yeah, this doesn't feel forced at all. It's very absorbable and also very just visually stylish. Thank you. I was really obviously interested in the visuals of it, and our publisher was too, because I was just like, you do understand that designy people listen to our show, and if the book is ugly, they will never forgive you. And they sort of connected us with Patrick Vale, who is the illustrator who worked on hundreds of different illustrations, both big and small, to demonstrate what was going on, but also just to kind of set the tone of it. The feel of it is both kind of like precise, but also it has a little bit of an abstraction to it in some instances. And I think it's a beautiful object and you're always trying to figure out what to do when you create anything. Are you creating something like ephemeral and immediate or are you creating like, a permanent and beautiful object? There's a balance of that when it comes to audio all the time because you could fuss over it endlessly to make it a beautiful object. And it's kind of fleeting and ephemeral no matter what you do. But when you put all the effort into a book, it's incumbent, I think, to make it, I don't know, something somewhat precious because of all these just resources going into it. But I'm happy with it even though it had a little bit of an issue to figure out of being kind of fish nor foul. It isn't really a coffee table book. It is a book of stories. They don't have to be read altogether in a row, but they build on each other when they are read in a row. And you kind of had to serve lots of different audiences simultaneously. And again, this was something that Kurt and I had just endless meetings about. Just the structure of the thing independent of the writing to make it all work. So, anyway, I'm glad you liked it. I'm sort of going on about it. Oh, no, this is all fascinating. Yeah, I have the physical version here and there's a digital version. But there is also an audiobook, obviously. Yeah, there is. What was that like, then, turning it back into it was horrible. I've been doing voiceover and narration for 20 something years at this point. Reading an audiobook is the hardest version of that, I think. And this is my own style in our own writing, so I know the material better. But even that was exhausting. I was realizing how little I talk in a row, even when I record narration or do interviews, that I was like, oh, great. I'll just knock out a couple of hours of reading or whatever every few days. But I was exhausted by it. It was so hard. When any author and I know a fair number of authors now that ask me about narrating their own work, I'm just like, unless you really want to just avoid it, it's really hard. But the publishers and I know the audience, they're used to the sound of my voice. I think for some of them, it gives them a certain amount of comfort and it seemed important that it be me to read it. So I'm glad with the product. I'm glad we did it. I'm also glad that we appended an episode of the show at the end of the audiobook just because part of me felt like if you went away thinking that me reading this book is the show. You don't have a full concept what the show is, and so I wanted to make sure that was present there. And so I think it's a nice thing to have. And I think if somebody's like, oh, I really love 99% of visible, I want to listen to 11 hours of it in a row. It does serve that. But it was extremely hard. I couldn't believe how hard it was. I was so self conscious about it that we had an independent company kind of cut it together, who worked for the publisher. And I would pre edit it because I would mess up so much that I would send an edited version for them to go edit again. Because I was just like, I'm not this bad at this. Normally I should be anyway, I didn't want anyone to hear it. Today's episode is brought to you by GoDaddy. Have you been trying to grow a small business all on your own? It used to seem like an overwhelming mystery how small business owners can wear multiple hats and manage every aspect of their operations. But thanks to GoDaddy, it's now clear how entrepreneurs can do it all easily while also saving both time and money. GoDaddy's Commerce Solution offers a central dashboard that simplifies managing orders, sales payments, and inventory across online and in person channels. With GoDaddy, you can sell in all channels on your website or online store as well as in person with one solution save time with a central single dashboard to manage your orders and payments across sales channels. Plus, GoDaddy has point of sale options to suit your needs. Sell on the go at farmers markets or pop up events with a card reader and mobile app, or use a modern smart terminal for instore payments. GoDaddy Payments lets you keep more of what you make with 20% lower transaction fees compared to other providers. Plus, you'll get your money fast with payouts as soon as the next business day. So if you want to learn more about how GoDaddy takes the mystery out of growing your business, visit GoDaddy.com slash Grow today and get started. See terms on site. Today's episode is brought to you by Big Brothers, big Sisters of America. Did you know one in three kids in the US. Lack a mentor? Over 300 hopeful kids are on the Big Brothers Big Sisters waiting list. Mentoring may sound like a lot, but it takes little to be big. Think just 30 minutes for a coffee or a quick 20 minutes gaming session, or the time it takes to have a couple of slices of pizza. These small moments are mentoring magic, and we need more of the little things. We need more mentors who remember the little moments and experiences that affected their lives and now welcome the opportunity to do the same for a young person by exposing kids to positive, caring relationships beyond the adults in their families and neighborhoods. Mentoring expands a young person's sights on what they can pursue and achieve. The connection and confidence that inspires a kid can have a ripple effect. And when that happens, we all win. The truth is, mentorship changes lives. Donate to Big Brothers, big Sisters of America@bebignow.org. Help make sure every kid has what they need to thrive. Let's transform lives together. Give a little change a lot. Today's episode is brought to you by Dell. What would you do if you had the freedom to be anyone or go anywhere without limitations? Start your journey and experience for yourself the feeling of total freedom when you game with Alienware. Alienware is your portal to new worlds where limits don't exist and the only rules are the ones you decide to make. Next gen gaming is built with Intel Core I Nine Processors. Defy boundaries and start gaming now@alienware.com. Sick of paying $100 for groceries and getting nothing but eggs, orange juice, and a paper bag? Then download the drop app. Drop lets you earn points with your everyday shopping and redeem them for gift cards. Want a free dinner with those groceries? Drop it. How about daily lates? Drop it. So download Drop today and get $5 just for signing up. Use invite code. Get Drop. Seven, seven, seven. So the title the 99% Invisible City, does this leave open the possibility for future volumes dealing with different arrays of topics? Yeah, that was the idea. In fact, when we went out and pitched it originally, I pitched it as kind of a set of books, like maybe one about cities, maybe one about sort of roads and byways and highways type of thing, and then about sort of vernacular architecture and specific to places. We ended up sort of like, making the city one, incorporate a lot of that stuff already. As soon as we went out with it, people were like, whoa, whoa, whoa. Why don't you just get one book out instead of plan your trilogy? And they were totally right. But this goes back to the original name to begin with, is like, I was making a show about design. I wanted it to have this name, 99% Invisible, but I thought it was so evocative that I could do a season about science, I could do a season about something else. There's so many things that, in terms of explanatory journalism that need to be explained better, and most of them are pretty invisible to most of us, so it kind of applies to a lot of things. And so I could totally see a series of books in different ways, or a kids book version or something like that. I'm open to it, but honestly, the internal drive hasn't quite rebuilt to like, oh, my God, I really want to go through that again. Now, the book deals a lot with the space where design exists between kind of, I guess, government and law on one side, and user desire and experience on the other. You alluded to one half of this earlier talking about how safer the world feels with a lot of the designs we have in place. I know we can't really place a value judgment on design itself, but does design seem to largely have a trajectory toward user safety and happiness? I would say so. I mean, design is about functionality and it sort of depends on what master it is serving at a certain moment as to whether or not it is serving one type of audience versus another type of audience or user rather. And so you could say some of those things in the real world they work at Cross mean we just did a little segment of an episode that Delaney Hall did on the show about this idea of Strodes, which is like a portmanteau between street and roads. And the idea here is that a road is a conveyance to get someone from one place to the other as quickly as possible. A street is a place that you occupy and live and there are stores on it and pork benches and things like that. And when something is truly a road, like a highway to get from one place to the other, it works well when something's truly a street and it is for loitering and hanging out and to being in places, it works well when things are Strodes, when they're designed to go through quickly. But they have all these people in the way and stores that people are coming in and out of and stuff like that, then they work poorly and they tend to be really dangerous. So you could say, well, it was designed poorly or it's sort of a little bit semantic or like how you place the emphasis of it. I would say that that's the tyranny of thoughtless design creates a strode versus somebody really tried to make it this way on purpose. And so we do end up with things at the end which are poorly designed, that are dangerous, that do not make the world a better place. They are probably created from a constraint from this type of constituency, applying it in this way and then another one to this way, and it creates this sort of Frankenstein, which is a poorly designed thing. And that is a version of cultural and product evolution that is a result of people putting all their two cent in to create something that is not very functional for most people. But I do believe that when you do think of safety and care in minds, that we do a good job of creating those things in the end and actually anticipating things that you may not anticipate and hopefully never have to anticipate when you encounter them in the real world, that there are these safety things in place that hopefully just make the world a better place, make you safer. But hopefully you never have to consider whether or not a signpost is a breakaway post, or whether or not trees along the side of the road, they're there to make you feel crowded, so that therefore, you do not go very fast. They're meant to add some agitation to you. Roundabouts, like you mentioned, are a perfect example. I mean, one of the reasons why roundabouts are so safe is because they feel so awful when you enter into one. You have to be really aware. And being aware and making the built environment break you out of your like, maybe your sort of road zombification is a good thing for your safety, but it might not feel like a good thing when you go through it, but somebody thought about that for you. And so for the most part, I would say we endeavor to make things safer, but there are definitely some gaps. And mostly it's when a bunch of people are not coming on the same page of what the design brief really is. Yeah. And of course, in the book you talk about some designs, such as those intended to keep unhomed people from laying on park benches, that sort of thing. Yeah, there's lots of hostile design. And again, it's serving somebody's purpose, like somebody's putting it there on purpose because they're trying to commit a kind of social change and social pressure and influence through the built world. Now, the thing is, as privileged people, they're kind of doing that for you. They're doing it for your benefit to the detriment of people who have less. And the important part about that influence is recognizing, do you really want that somebody's making this decision for you? And if you don't know about it, then obviously you can't sort of have any commentary. So our first job is to make people aware of what these spikes and these different sort of hostile architecture interventions are. And then the second step is to go like, well, is that a result you want? And do you want to interact with your city to change it? It's the second part of that discussion. Your strode example reminded me of parklets, which are also discussed in the book. Yeah. By the time the book came out, and certainly by the time of my reading, like, everyone, I think, especially in urban areas, had heard of parklets due to their role in the pandemic. But this is also an area that's between different ideas of what the street or the road is used for. Yeah, a parklet is a really interesting thing. There's a sort of movement here called parking day. I'm in the Bay Area, which sort of pioneered this idea of like, well, instead of putting a coin in a meter to rent a space for a car, why don't we put coins in the meter and lay down some sod and put some chairs down? And this is something I've covered for, I mean, for like 20 something years, 20 years at this point. And then it really came to pass when all of a sudden we're in COVID. We wanted to be together, but we needed space away from each other and space outside. And when it comes to roads, for millennia they've been these sort of multimodal use cases. Like people walked on them, people rode bikes on them, people rode horses on them, vendors set up in the middle of them. And then over time, we just decided that, oh, they're for cars. No one else belongs on them. And you can cross here and here, and if you cross anywhere in between, you're breaking the law. And that was where our values lied when it came to the design of cities. It's not where I would place my personal values, but we collectively kind of thought that that was a good case. And then COVID comes along and all of a sudden the value of that space changed. And we wanted it back as pedestrians and people and people drinking coffee. And so we decided to bump out these spaces that were used for cars so that we could be outside and enjoy things. And it was kind of fascinating because the book came out right at the kind of beginning of COVID in 2020. And it was an interesting time to think about the design of cities when this outside influence made us rethink how our cities should be designed very rapidly and thoroughly. Because one of the things that happens when you're thinking about design or thinking about your city is there's kind of a solipsistic kind of way we enter the world is the way things are and should be. And we don't really think about the continuum we are on when it comes to how cities are designed and should be designed. And so when you have a rapid kind of jolt to the system and there's a reassessment of space and the value of space in different ways, it's a good time to think about, hey, you know what? Maybe we do think about roads as belonging to cars. But if you look at this book or look through history, you'll realize that roads weren't about cars. It's a pretty recent phenomenon that we thought that that's what they should be and maybe it's worth reassessing these things. And I think if there's any sort of thesis to the book or to the show, it's that the built world and the things we design are a window into our values as humans, and they always shift and change based on those values. And when you have this moment of crisis when it comes to the pandemic, it really did change our value of what a city was for and who it was for and what was worth giving up and what wasn't worth giving up. And as horrible as the situation was, it was fascinating to sort of figure out those reassessments and realignments. And I think some of the stuff that we figured out during that period of time will still linger with us for a long time, and maybe they'll be completely subsumed in different types of normal life, quote unquote, normal life will return in different ways. But I do think that there's like a sense that, yeah, these spaces, we kind of want them back and we're never going to relent, we're never going to give them back again. It was fascinating to watch happen as we were talking about the book so much and also to see the results of it today. All right, well, the podcast is, of course, 99% invisible. The Book is the 99% invisible city. Roman Mars, thanks for taking time out of your day to chat with me. Oh, it was my pleasure. Thank you so much. I really enjoy the show, too, so it's a real honor to be on. Thank you. All right, thanks again to Roman Mars for taking time out of his busy day to chat with me. Here. Again, the podcast is 99% Invisible, and you can find 99% invisible anywhere. You get your podcasts, obviously, and the book is the 99% Invisible City, which is available in all formats. Like I said in the interview, I've got the hard version here, the physical copy, and it's really nice, really nice design in this, so I highly recommend it. As always, I want to remind you that Stuff to Blow Your Mind is a science podcast with core episodes on Tuesdays and Thursdays. On Mondays, we do listener mail. On Wednesdays, we do a short form artifact or Monster fact episode, and on Fridays we do weird house Cinema. That's our time to set aside most serious concerns and just talk about a weird film. Thanks, as always to JJ poswe for producing the show, and if you want to get in touch with us, you can email us at contact@stufftoblowyourmind.com. Stuff to blow your mind is production of iHeartRadio. For more podcasts from iHeartRadio, visit the iHeartRadio app, Apple podcasts, or wherever you listen to your favorite shows. Picture a swimmer backstroking through a pool of lime jelly. Now picture yourself getting the new iPhone 15 pro. Now picture a lion and antelope hugging. Now picture yourself switching to Boost Infinite and getting the latest iPhone every year. And unlimited wireless for just $60 a month. Now picture that swimmer again. But this time it's you, and the pool is full of iPhones and baby ducks. Boost Infinite infinitely better switch today. Visit boostinfinite.com. That's boostinfinite.com. Terms apply after 30GB service may be slowed. Receive a comparable iPhone model each year with an acceptable trade in every year. Requires credit qualification and 36 month phone financing agreement. If you've ever wanted to experience the thrill of driving a race car, now is the time to climb into the cockpit of a formula or car at Skip Barber Racing School. Skip Barber High performance racing schools are offered at seven iconic racetracks nationwide. Visit SkipBarber.com to enroll. Now use promo code podcast to receive free admittance into the inside line. Membership program. Seats are filling fast. The green flag is waving. It's time to go racing with Skip Barber. Racing school. Did you know one in three kids in the US. Lacks a mentor? Over 30,000 hopeful kids are on the Big Brothers Big Sisters waiting list. Mentoring may sound like a lot, but it takes little to be big. Think just 30 minutes for a coffee or a quick 20 minutes gaming session, or the time it takes to have a couple of slices of pizza. These small moments are mentoring magic. Donate to Big Brothersbigsistersof America@bebignow.org. Help make sure every kid has what they need to thrive. Let's transform lives together. Give a little change a lot. At bank of America, we learn what matters most by asking our customers one simple question what would you like the power to do? I'd like the power to worry less. The power to make my parents comfortable. The power to agree on a monthly budget. That'd be nice. No matter what your financial goal is, we're here to help. Bank of America what would you like the power to do? Bank of america NA member FDIC equal credit opportunity lender.